.\" Manpage for FilePeruser
.\" Any corrections should be submitted to silvernexus@users.sourceforge.net

.TH fileperuser 1 "01 June 2016" "0.02-dev" "FilePeruser Manual"

.SH NAME
FilePeruser

.SH SYNOPSIS
fileperuser [-1] [-n] [-b] [-h] [-x \fIdir\fR] [-X \fIpath\fR] [-d \fIpath\fR]
[-o \fIfile\fR] [-f \fIfile\fR] [-l \fIlevel\fR] [-p \fIlevel\fR]
.I search

.SH DESCRIPTION
FilePeruser is a recursive file search utility, similar to ack, ag, ucg,
or any other similar tool. The main difference between FilePeruser and
these is the the lack of support for regular expressions and a unique syntax
for invoking the command.

It is designed to be small, clean and fast. The fast portion is a work in
progress, since most other file search programs are equivalently fast with
a greater degree of versatility. Features have been slowly added in order
to compensate some for the relative infelxibility of FilePeruser.

At the same time, CPU-expensive features have been avoided where plausible,
particularly in the file-search algorithms, where the code executes the most.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h --help
Displays the help/usage page for FilePeruser and terminates.

.TP
.B -x --exclude \fIdir\fR
Excludes all instances of directories named
.I dir
from the search.

.TP
.B -X --exclude-path \fIpath\fR
Excludes the inode at \fIpath\fR from the search.

.TP
.B -d --dir \fIpath\fR
Sets \fIpath\fR as the directory to search. Can be used several times to set multiple
directories to search.

.TP
.B -o --output \fIfile\fR
Output the search results to file \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B -f --log-file \fIfile\fR
Output messages to file \fIfile\fR.

.TP
.B -l --loglevel \fIlevel\fR
Sets the minimum level of messages written in the log to \fIlevel\fR.

.TP
.B -p --printlevel \fIlevel\fR
Sets the minimum level of messages written to the screen to \fIlevel\fR.

.TP
.B -n --no-case
Search without case-sensitivity.

.TP
.B -1 --single-match
Find only one match per line.

.TP
.B -b --binary-files
Search binary files in addition to text files.

.TP
The levels for logging and printing are as follows:
.B Level | Severity
  0   | DEBUG
  1   | INFO
  2   | WARNING
  3   | ERROR
  4   | FATAL

.SH EXAMPLES
.B fileperuser -1 -d sample/directory search
.RS
Searches with a single match per line in the folder sample/directory for "search"
.RE

.B fileperuser -n -x excluded_dir -X allowed_path/exclude_me frantic
.RS
Searches without case for every instance of "frantic" in the current directory
except for any folder named "excluded_dir" and the inode ./allowed_path/exclude_me
.RE

.B fileperuser -h
.RS
Displays the help message for FilePeruser
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
 (C) 2014-2016 SilverNexus (silvernexus@sourceforge.net)
 
